README.md, before:

# Cognizant COVID X-Prize

## Introduction
Welcome to the COVID X-Prize! This archive contains what you need to get started in creating your submission for the
contest.

Within this archive you will find:
* Sample predictors provided by Cognizant, in the form of Jupyter notebooks
* Sample implementations of the "predict" API, which you will be required to implement as part of your submission
* Sample IP (intervention plan) data to test your submission

## Pre-requisites
To run the examples, you will need:
* A computer or cloud image running a recent version of OS X or Ubuntu (Microsoft Windows™, while it may be possible 
for you to use, the X-Prize team and Cognizant will be unable to support you.) 
* Your machine must have sufficient resources in terms of memory, CPU, and disk space to train machine learning models 
and run Python programs.
* An installed version of Python, version ≥ 3.6

Having registered for the contest, you should also have:
* A copy of the Competition Guidelines
* Access to the Support Slack channel
* A pre-initialized Sandbox within the X-Prize system

## Examples
Under the `examples` directory you will find some examples of predictors that you can inspect to learn more about 
what you need to do:
* `linear` contains a simple linear model, using the 
[Lasso algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lasso_(statistics)).
* `lstm` contains a more sophisticated [LSTM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Long_short-term_memory) 
model for making predictions.
 
The instructions below assume that you are using a standard Python virtual environment, and `pip` for package 
management. Installations using other environments (such as `conda`) are outside the scope of these steps.

In order to run the examples locally:
1. Create a Python [virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html)
1. Activate the virtual environment
1. Install the necessary requirements:
    ```shell script
    pip install -r requirements-txt --upgrade
    ```    
1. Start Jupyter services:
    ```shell script
    jupyter notebook
    ```
    This causes a browser window to launch
1.  Browse to and launch one of the examples (such as `linear`) and run through the steps in the associated 
notebook -- in the case of `linear`, `Example-Train-Linear-Rollout-Model.ipynb`.
1. The result should be a trained predictor, and some predictions generated by running the predictor on test data. 
Details are in the notebooks.
## X-Prize Sandbox
Upon registering for the contest, you will have been given access to a "Sandox", a virtual area within the X-Prize
cloud within which you can submit your work. 

In order for the automated judging process to detect and evaluate your submission, you **must** follow the 
instructions below. If your script does not conform to the API in any way, your submission will be omitted from 
judging.

1. Within your sandbox, under your home directory you will find a pre-created `work` directory.
1. Under this `work` directory, you must provide a Python script with the name `predict.py`. Examples of such scripts 
are provided in this archive. This script will invoke your predictor model and save the predictions produced.
1. Your script must accept particular command line parameters, and generate a particular output, as explained below. 
1. Whatever models and other data files your predictor requires must be uploaded to your sandbox and visible to your 
`predict.py` script, for example, by placing them in the `work` directory or subdirectories thereof.
1. Expect that the current working directory will be your Sandbox `work` directory when your script is called. Therefore, 
references to other modules and resource files should be relative to that.
1. Expect your script to be called as follows (the dates and filenames are just examples and will vary):
    ```shell script
    python predict.py --start_date 2020-12-01 --end_date 2020-12-31 --interventions_plan ip_file.csv 
      --output_file 2020-12-01_2020_12_31.csv 
    ```
1. It is the responsibility of your script to run your predictor for the dates requested 
(between `start_date` and `end_date` inclusive) and generate predictions in the path and file specified by 
`output_file`, using the provided intervention plan. Take careful note of the performance and timing requirements 
in the Competition Guidelines for running your predictor. 

For more details on this API, consult the Competition Guidelines or the support Slack channel.

## More information/Support
For more information and support, refer to the competition guidelines which you should have received when registering
for the contest, or post your questions in the support Slack channel, to which you should have also gained access 
upon registering.

Copyright 2020 (c) Cognizant Digital Business, Evolutionary AI. All rights reserved. Issued under the Apache 2.0 License.

Commit message:

Clarify handling of relative paths and PYTHONPATH

README.md, after:

# Cognizant COVID X-Prize

## Introduction
Welcome to the COVID X-Prize! This archive contains what you need to get started in creating your submission for the
contest.

Within this archive you will find:
* Sample predictors provided by Cognizant, in the form of Jupyter notebooks
* Sample implementations of the "predict" API, which you will be required to implement as part of your submission
* Sample IP (intervention plan) data to test your submission

## Pre-requisites
To run the examples, you will need:
* A computer or cloud image running a recent version of OS X or Ubuntu (Microsoft Windows™, while it may be possible 
for you to use, the X-Prize team and Cognizant will be unable to support you.) 
* Your machine must have sufficient resources in terms of memory, CPU, and disk space to train machine learning models 
and run Python programs.
* An installed version of Python, version ≥ 3.6

Having registered for the contest, you should also have:
* A copy of the Competition Guidelines
* Access to the Support Slack channel
* A pre-initialized Sandbox within the X-Prize system

## Examples
Under the `examples` directory you will find some examples of predictors that you can inspect to learn more about 
what you need to do:
* `linear` contains a simple linear model, using the 
[Lasso algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lasso_(statistics)).
* `lstm` contains a more sophisticated [LSTM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Long_short-term_memory) 
model for making predictions.
 
The instructions below assume that you are using a standard Python virtual environment, and `pip` for package 
management. Installations using other environments (such as `conda`) are outside the scope of these steps.

In order to run the examples locally:
1. Ensure your current working directory is the root folder of this repository (the same directory as this README 
resides in). The examples assume your working directory is set to the project root and all paths are relative to 
it.
1. Ensure your `PYTHONPATH` includes your current directory:
    ```shell script
    export PYTHONPATH=.:$PYTHONPATH
    ```
1. Create a Python [virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html)
1. Activate the virtual environment
1. Install the necessary requirements:
    ```shell script
    pip install -r requirements-txt --upgrade
    ```    
1. Start Jupyter services:
    ```shell script
    jupyter notebook
    ```
    This causes a browser window to launch
1.  Browse to and launch one of the examples (such as `linear`) and run through the steps in the associated 
notebook -- in the case of `linear`, `Example-Train-Linear-Rollout-Model.ipynb`.
1. The result should be a trained predictor, and some predictions generated by running the predictor on test data. 
Details are in the notebooks.
## X-Prize Sandbox
Upon registering for the contest, you will have been given access to a "Sandox", a virtual area within the X-Prize
cloud within which you can submit your work. 

In order for the automated judging process to detect and evaluate your submission, you **must** follow the 
instructions below. If your script does not conform to the API in any way, your submission will be omitted from 
judging.

1. Within your sandbox, under your home directory you will find a pre-created `work` directory.
1. Under this `work` directory, you must provide a Python script with the name `predict.py`. Examples of such scripts 
are provided in this archive. This script will invoke your predictor model and save the predictions produced.
1. Your script must accept particular command line parameters, and generate a particular output, as explained below. 
1. Whatever models and other data files your predictor requires must be uploaded to your sandbox and visible to your 
`predict.py` script, for example, by placing them in the `work` directory or subdirectories thereof.
1. Expect that the current working directory will be your Sandbox `work` directory when your script is called. Therefore, 
references to other modules and resource files should be relative to that.
1. Expect your script to be called as follows (the dates and filenames are just examples and will vary):
    ```shell script
    python predict.py --start_date 2020-12-01 --end_date 2020-12-31 --interventions_plan ip_file.csv 
      --output_file 2020-12-01_2020_12_31.csv 
    ```
1. It is the responsibility of your script to run your predictor for the dates requested 
(between `start_date` and `end_date` inclusive) and generate predictions in the path and file specified by 
`output_file`, using the provided intervention plan. Take careful note of the performance and timing requirements 
in the Competition Guidelines for running your predictor. 

For more details on this API, consult the Competition Guidelines or the support Slack channel.

## More information/Support
For more information and support, refer to the competition guidelines which you should have received when registering
for the contest, or post your questions in the support Slack channel, to which you should have also gained access 
upon registering.

Copyright 2020 (c) Cognizant Digital Business, Evolutionary AI. All rights reserved. Issued under the Apache 2.0 License.
